mongodump works by querying
against a running MongoDB server and writing all of the documents it contains to disk.

Slave backups



When running MongoDB
with replication (see Chapter 9), any of the previously mentioned backup techniques
can be applied to a slave server rather than the master. The slave will always have a
copy of the data that is nearly in sync with the master. Because we’re not depending
on the performance of the slave or its availability for reads or writes, we are free to use
any of the three options above: shutting down, the dump and restore tools, or the
fsync command. Backing up from a slave is the recommended way to hand.

Replica set
A replica set is basically a master-slave cluster with automatic failover. The biggest
difference between a master-slave cluster and a replica set is that a replica set does not
have a single master: one is elected by the cluster and may change to another node if
the current master goes down. However, they look very similar: a replica set always has
a single master node (called a primary) and one or more slaves (called secondaries).


Failover and primary election
If the current primary fails, the rest of the nodes in the set will attempt to elect a new
primary node. This election process will be initiated by any node that cannot reach the
primary. The new primary must be elected by a majority of the nodes in the set. Arbiter
nodes participate in voting as well and are useful for breaking ties (e.g., when the participating nodes are split into two halves separated by a network partition). The new
primary will be the node with the highest priority, using freshness of data to break ties
between nodes with the same priority.

Whenever the primary changes, the data on the new primary is assumed to be the most
up-to-date data in the system. Any operations that have been applied on any other
nodes (i.e., the former primary node) will be rolled back, even if the former primary
comes back online. To accomplish this rollback, all nodes go through a resync process
when connecting to a new primary. They look through their oplog for operations that
have not been applied on the primary and query the new primary to get an up-to-date
copy of any documents affected by such operations. Nodes that are currently in the
process of resyncing are said to be recovering and will not be eligible for primary election
until the process is complete.

-------------------------
The primary purpose and most common use case of a MongoDB slave is to function
as failover mechanism in the case of data loss or downtime on the master node. There
are other valid use cases for a MongoDB slave, however. A slave can be used as a source
for taking backups (see Chapter 8). It can also be used for scaling out reads or for
performing data processing jobs on.
--------------------



